# Introduction to Mern Stack

## The phrase “MERN stack” refers to the following technologies:
   #### MongoDB:
   ###### MongoDB is a cross-platform document-oriented database program
   #### Express.js: 
   ###### Express.js, or simply Express, is a web application framework for Node.js
   #### React: 
   ###### React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
   #### Node.js: 
   ###### Node.js is an open-source, cross-platform JavaScript run-time environment that executes JavaScript code outside of a browser

# Server setup with Express and Node
## npm package initialization
Our first task is to create a project folder. Enter the folder through the terminal, then run the following command:

      $ npm init

Now it will ask you some questions about package name, version, entry point, etc. Hit enter if you want to keep the default.

Select yes and you are ready to go. It creates a file named package.json.
# Dependencies packages installation
Now, I would like to add some dependencies: 

      $ npm i express mongoose body-parser bcryptjs validation
      
Type or copy the command above and hit the enter button. 

    bcryptjs is a password hashing function designed by Niels Provos and David Mazières
    body-parser allows us to get the data throughout the request
    express is our main framework
    mongoose is used to connect/interact with MongoDB
    validation (as its name implies) is used for validation
    
    
Now I want to add nodemon as a dev dependency. If you don’t want to add this, you can skip it — it’s optional.
      
      $ npm i -D nodemon
    
    
   
nodemon is a utility that will monitor for any changes in your source and automatically restart your server.

# Setting the entry point
Now create a file named app.js for our entry point. You can create this from the project folder with the command below

      $ touch app.js
      
Then paste the code below:

      // app.js

      const express = require('express');

      const app = express();

      app.get('/', (req, res) => res.send('Hello world!'));

      const port = process.env.PORT || 8082;

      app.listen(port, () => console.log(`Server running on port ${port}`));
      
Now, run the command

      $ node app
      
You will see Server running on port 8082. You can also check it from the browser: open the browser and enter http://localhost:3000
